doc(finalizer) : Add an example based on Memcached Getting Started one (#1402)
operator-framework/operator-sdk: doc/user-guide.md

deleted until you remove the finalizer (ie, after your cleanup logic has successfully run). For more information, see the
[official Kubernetes documentation on finalizers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/#finalizers).

**Example:**

The following is a snippet from the controller file under `pkg/controller/memcached/memcached_controller.go`

```Go
func (r *ReconcileMemcached) Reconcile(request reconcile.Request) (reconcile.Result, error) {
  reqLogger := log.WithValues("Request.Namespace", request.Namespace, "Request.Name", request.Name)
  reqLogger.Info("Reconciling Memcached")

  // Fetch the Memcached instance
  memcached := &cachev1alpha1.Memcached{}
  err := r.client.Get(context.TODO(), request.NamespacedName, memcached)
  ...
  // Check if the APP CR was marked to be deleted
  isCRMarkedToBeDeleted := memcached.GetDeletionTimestamp() != nil
  if isCRMarkedToBeDeleted {

>     // TODO(user): Add the cleanup steps that the operator needs to do before the CR can be delete

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
    // TODO(user): Add the cleanup steps that the operator needs to do before the CR can be deleted
```

    // Update finalizer to allow delete CR
    memcached.SetFinalizers(nil)
    
    // Update CR
    err := r.client.Update(context.TODO(), memcached)
    if err != nil {
        return reconcile.Result{}, err
    }
    return reconcile.Result{}, nil
  } 
  
  // Add finalizer for this CR
  if err := r.addFinalizer(reqLogger, instance); err != nil {
    return reconcile.Result{}, err
  }
  ... 
  
  return reconcile.Result{}, nil
}

//addFinalizer will add this attribute to the Memcached CR
func (r *ReconcileMemcached) addFinalizer(reqLogger logr.Logger, m *cachev1alpha1.Memcached) error {
  if len(m.GetFinalizers()) < 1 && m.GetDeletionTimestamp() == nil {
    reqLogger.Info("Adding Finalizer for the Memcached")
    m.SetFinalizers([]string{"finalizer.cache.example.com"})
    
    // Update CR
    err := r.client.Update(context.TODO(), m)
    if err != nil {
        reqLogger.Error(err, "Failed to update Memcached with finalizer")

>         return err

Reviewer: This is a bit pedantic but Lines 472-473 are indented by 4 spaces from the if statement whereas every other level of indentation(tab) is 2 spaces in this example.

Can we make every tab/indent level 4 spaces. I think that's more readable.

Looking back at other snippets we've been alternating between 4-8 space tabs so we ought to clean that up later.

Author: |o| it was wit 4 spaces and I thought that you would like 2.. 
No worry, yes. 4 spaces shows better in my point of view as well.. Done 👍

deleted until you remove the finalizer (ie, after your cleanup logic has successfully run). For more information, see the
[official Kubernetes documentation on finalizers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/#finalizers).

**Example:**

> Following is a snippet from the controller file under `pkg/controller/memcached/memcached_controller.go`

Reviewer: Nit:
```suggestion
The following is a snippet from the controller file under `pkg/controller/memcached/memcached_controller.go`
```

Author: 👍

```go
func (r *ReconcileMemcached) Reconcile(request reconcile.Request) (reconcile.Result, error) {
    reqLogger := log.WithValues("Request.Namespace", request.Namespace, "Request.Name", request.Name)
    reqLogger.Info("Reconciling Memcached")
        
    // Fetch the Memcached instance
    memcached := &cachev1alpha1.Memcached{}

>     err := r.client.Get(context.TODO(), request.NamespacedName, memcached)

Reviewer: Nit: Add the error check.
```Go
if err != nil {
	return reconcile.Result{}, err
}
```

Or, since this is just an example snippet, and we want to keep it short just add an ellipsis instead of the error check:
```Go
err := r.client.Get(context.TODO(), request.NamespacedName, memcached)
...
```

Author: Done

> 	//Check if the APP CR was marked to be deleted

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	// Check if the APP CR was marked to be deleted
```

	isCRMarkedToBeDeleted := memcached.GetDeletionTimestamp() != nil
	if isCRMarkedToBeDeleted {

> 		//TODO(user): Add the impl that is required to allow the CR be deleted

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		// TODO(user): Add the implementation that is required to allow the CR to be deleted
```

> 		// TODO(user): Add the impl that is required to allow the CR be deleted

Reviewer: Rephrasing for clarity. WDYT:
```suggestion
		// TODO(user): Add the cleanup steps that the operator needs to do before the CR can be deleted
```

> 		//Update finalizer timestamp to allow delete CR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		// Update finalizer timestamp to allow delete CR
```

		memcached.SetFinalizers(nil)

		// Update CR
		err := r.client.Update(context.TODO(), memcached)
		if err != nil {
			return reconcile.Result{}, err
		}
		return reconcile.Result{}, nil
	}
	

> 	// Add finalizer for this CR

Reviewer: The indentation for Lines 440-455 are off. I think they should be aligned with  the rest of the function to just 1 tab space.

> 	//Add finalizer for this CR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	// Add finalizer for this CR
```

    if err := r.addFinalizer(reqLogger, instance); err != nil {
        return reconcile.Result{}, err
    }
    

>    	//{...} reconcile implementations ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
   	// {...} reconcile implementations ...
```

   	
    return reconcile.Result{}, nil

> }

Reviewer 3: Nit: This example function looks like it has a mixture of tabs and spaces for line indents that's causing things not to align properly. Can you update everything to tabs to align with [`go fmt`](https://golang.org/doc/effective_go.html#formatting)

> //addFinalizer will add this attribute to the Memcached CR

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// addFinalizer will add this attribute to the Memcached CR.
```

func (r *ReconcileMemcached) addFinalizer(reqLogger logr.Logger, m *cachev1alpha1.Memcached) error {
	if len(m.GetFinalizers()) < 1 && m.GetDeletionTimestamp() == nil {
		reqLogger.Info("Adding Finalizer for the Memcached")
		m.SetFinalizers([]string{"finalizer.cache.example.com"})
		
		// Update CR
		err := r.client.Update(context.TODO(), m)
		if err != nil {
			reqLogger.Error(err, "Failed to update Memcached with finalizer")
			return err
		}
	}

> 	return nil

Reviewer: Indentation for lines 467-468 should be 1 tab space to align with the function above.

deleted until you remove the finalizer (ie, after your cleanup logic has successfully run). For more information, see the
[official Kubernetes documentation on finalizers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/#finalizers).

**Example:**

> Following an example of your Custom Resource with. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Following is an example finalizer based on the Memcached example.
```

> 

Reviewer 2: Something along these lines:
```suggestion
After the metadata name line your deploy/<>_cr.yaml file add the reference to `finalizers`. If you are following the above example your CR file should look something like this:
```

> ```go

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```sh
```

> apiVersion: cache.example.com/v1alpha1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
$ cat deploy/crds/cache_v1alpha1_memcached_cr.yaml
apiVersion: cache.example.com/v1alpha1
```

kind: Memcached
metadata:
  name: example-memcached
  finalizers:
  - finalizer.cache.example.com
spec:
  # Add fields here
  size: 3
```

> Following and example of the controller implemented to work with. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Following is a snippet from the controller file under `pkg/controller/memcached/memcached_controller.go`:
```

```go
func (r *ReconcileMemcached) Reconcile(request reconcile.Request) (reconcile.Result, error) {
    reqLogger := log.WithValues("Request.Namespace", request.Namespace, "Request.Name", request.Name)
    reqLogger.Info("Reconciling Memcached")
        
    // Fetch the Memcached instance
    memcached := &cachev1alpha1.Memcached{}
    err := r.client.Get(context.TODO(), request.NamespacedName, memcached)

>     //{...} reconcile implementations ...

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // {...} reconcile implementations ...
```

>     //Perform the actions required to allow the CR deletion

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Perform the actions required to allow the CR deletion
```

    if err := r.doFinalizerActions(memcached); err != nil {

>         reqLogger.Error(err, "Unable to perform actions to finalize the Mencached", "Memcached.Namespace", memcached.Namespace, "Memcached.Name", memcached.Name)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        reqLogger.Error(err, "Unable to perform actions to finalize the Memcached", "Memcached.Namespace", memcached.Namespace, "Memcached.Name", memcached.Name)
```

        return reconcile.Result{}, err
    }
    

>     //Check Finalizer

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // Check Finalizer
```

    if err := r.checkFinalizer(memcached); err != nil {

>         reqLogger.Error(err, "Unable to satisfy finalizer conditionals for Mencached", "Memcached.Namespace", memcached.Namespace, "Memcached.Name", memcached.Name)

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        reqLogger.Error(err, "Unable to satisfy finalizer conditionals for Memcached", "Memcached.Namespace", memcached.Namespace, "Memcached.Name", memcached.Name)
```

        return reconcile.Result{}, err
    }
    
    return reconcile.Result{}, nil
}

> //checkFinalizer returns error when was not possible check that the defined actions were performed with success

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// checkFinalizer function returns an error where it was not possible to check that the defined actions were performed with success.
```

func (r *ReconcileMemcached) checkFinalizer(m *cachev1alpha1.Memcached) error {
	if len(m.GetFinalizers()) > 0 && m.GetDeletionTimestamp() != nil {

> 		// Check if finalizer conditional was performed with sucess

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		// Check if finalizer conditional was performed with success
```

		if  isFinalizerActionMet(m) {

> 			return fmt.Errorf("Unable to met criteria for Mancached deletion.")

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
			return fmt.Errorf("Unable to met criteria for Memcached deletion.")
```

		}
		

> 		// Remove finalizer and deletion timestamp from the CR to allow cluster delete it

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		// Remove finalizer and deletion timestamp from the CR to allow the cluster to delete it
```

		m.SetFinalizers(nil)
		m.SetDeletionTimestamp(nil)
		
		// Update CR
		err := r.client.Update(context.TODO(), m)
		if err != nil {
			return err
		}
	}
	return nil
}

> //doFinalizerActions perform the actions required before the CR be deleted

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// doFinalizerActions performs the actions required before the CR can be deleted
```

func (r *ReconcileMemcached) doFinalizerActions(m *cachev1alpha1.Memcached) error {
	// Check if the Memcached CR has a finalizer defined
	if len(m.GetFinalizers()) > 0 && m.GetDeletionTimestamp() != nil {

> 		//TODO: Add the impl that is required to allow the CR be deleted

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
		// TODO: Add the logic that is required to allow the CR to be deleted
```

Is this the users todo? If so we should add TODO(user): ...

Author: Yes, it is updating it now. tks.

	}
	return nil
}

> //isFinalizerActionMet returns true when the criteria to allow the the CR be deleted was attended

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
// isFinalizerActionMet returns true when the criteria to allow the CR to be deleted was attended
```

what do you mean by attended here?

Author: met/it is a check if conditional was performed then return true. For example, if the conditional is remove an object from a REST Service here we will do a request in this REST Service to check if the object was or not removed. Have you any suggestion for re-wording it?

func isFinalizerActionMet(m *cachev1alpha1.Memcached) bool {

> 	//TODO: Add the impl which will check if the actions to finalize this CR was performed with success

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
	// TODO: Add the logic which will check if the actions to finalize this CR was performed with success
```

Again is this the TODO left for the user, then we need to add the user after TODO

deleted until you remove the finalizer (ie, after your cleanup logic has successfully run). For more information, see the
[official Kubernetes documentation on finalizers](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/access-kubernetes-api/custom-resources/custom-resource-definitions/#finalizers).

**Example:**

After the metadata name line your CR file add the reference to `finalizers`. If you are following the above example your CR file should look something like this:

```sh
$ cat deploy/crds/cache_v1alpha1_memcached_cr.yaml
apiVersion: cache.example.com/v1alpha1
kind: Memcached
metadata:
  name: example-memcached
  finalizers:

>   - finalizer.cache.example.com

Reviewer 4: The controller should add this if it needs to take actions at deletion. the user or cr should not have to set this IMO.

Author: I will do this change.

spec:
  # Add fields here
  size: 3
```

Following is a snippet from the controller file under `pkg/controller/memcached/memcached_controller.go`

```go
func (r *ReconcileMemcached) Reconcile(request reconcile.Request) (reconcile.Result, error) {
    reqLogger := log.WithValues("Request.Namespace", request.Namespace, "Request.Name", request.Name)
    reqLogger.Info("Reconciling Memcached")
        
    // Fetch the Memcached instance
    memcached := &cachev1alpha1.Memcached{}
    err := r.client.Get(context.TODO(), request.NamespacedName, memcached)

> 

Reviewer 4: Once you get the object, we need to add the finalizer if it is not there and no deletion timestamp.

Author: I will work on it.

    if err := r.doFinalizerActions(memcached); err != nil {
        reqLogger.Error(err, "Unable to perform actions to finalize the Mencached", "Memcached.Namespace", memcached.Namespace, "Memcached.Name", memcached.Name)
        return reconcile.Result{}, err
    }
    
    //Check Finalizer
    if err := r.checkFinalizer(memcached); err != nil {
        reqLogger.Error(err, "Unable to satisfy finalizer conditionals for Mencached", "Memcached.Namespace", memcached.Namespace, "Memcached.Name", memcached.Name)
        return reconcile.Result{}, err
    }
    
    return reconcile.Result{}, nil
}

//checkFinalizer returns error when was not possible check that the defined actions were performed with success
func (r *ReconcileMemcached) checkFinalizer(m *cachev1alpha1.Memcached) error {
	if len(m.GetFinalizers()) > 0 && m.GetDeletionTimestamp() != nil {
		// Check if finalizer conditional was performed with sucess
		if  isFinalizerActionMet(m) {
			return fmt.Errorf("Unable to met criteria for Mancached deletion.")
		}
		
		// Remove finalizer and deletion timestamp from the CR to allow the cluster to delete it
		m.SetFinalizers(nil)

> 		m.SetDeletionTimestamp(nil)

Reviewer 4: I don't think that we should be clearing the deletion timestamp, this is changing what the user asked for.

Author: Thank you for let me know.
